Bump boost, gcc, clang for non-windows builds and add CI job with these versions (#16177)
ethereum/solidity: Changelog.md

Bugfixes:
* Assembler: Fix not using a fixed-width type for IDs being assigned to subassemblies nested more than one level away, resulting in inconsistent `--asm-json` output between target architectures.

> * General: Fix boost::rational comparison bug with gcc < 14 and C++20 that leads to infinite recursion.

Reviewer: Wasn't that GCC<11? Also, we always build with C++20. Boost version is more relevant here.
```suggestion
* General: Fix infinite recursion on `boost::rational` comparison affecting compiler binaries built with GCC<14.0 and Boost<1.75.
```

Reviewer: Wait, we don't need this, do we? We did not fix the bug, we just bumped the versions :)

Perhaps we could just mention this along the version updates below. It could be a single entry mentioning all updated versions and the reason.

Author: > Wasn't that GCC<11? Also, we always build with C++20. Boost version is more relevant here.

https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/issues/16084 states in the title `<11`  but the issue description mentions `<14`. 

> Wait, we don't need this, do we? We did not fix the bug, we just bumped the versions :)

Well. Depends on what you think constitutes a fix, hehe. But yeah, it's not absolutely necessary to put this here, I agree.

> Perhaps we could just mention this along the version updates below. It could be a single entry mentioning all updated versions and the reason.

Sounds good!

Reviewer: > https://github.com/argotorg/solidity/issues/16084 states in the title `<11`  but the issue description mentions `<14`.

Oh, my bad. The issue mentions both 11 and 14 as does https://osec.io/blog/2025-08-11-compiler-bug-causes-compiler-bug, but rereading them now I realized that 11 referred to the version that was used to reproduce the bug, which was our old requirement. So you're right, the more general condition is <14.

> But yeah, it's not absolutely necessary to put this here, I agree.

I see you followed my last suggestion to merge it with the version update entry, but it is still there - I think you forgot to remove it.

Reviewer: But wait. GCC 13.3 is still within the <14 range that triggers the bug. Is that intentional?

Technically, this means that you can still run into this bug on Windows if you use the minimum requirements (Boost 1.77, GCC 13.3) and force CMake to use GCC instead of MSVC.

Author: > I see you followed my last suggestion to merge it with the version update entry, but it is still there - I think you forgot to remove it.

Argh.

* Yul Optimizer: Fix edge case in which invalid Yul code is produced by ExpressionSimplifier due to expressions being substituted that contain out-of-scope variables.

Build System:
* Update minimum version requirement of boost to 1.83.0 for non-windows builds.

> * Update minimum version requirements of gcc and clang to 13.3 and 18.1.3, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update minimum version requirement of Boost to 1.83.0 for non-Windows builds.
* Update minimum version requirements of GCC and Clang to 13.3 and 18.1.3, respectively.
```
